The month of June showed interest in AI-related chipmakers to experience a relatively subdued period. Waning interest in AI-related chipmakers might indicate a temporary slowdown in the market for these companies – after having benefited from the AI boom in the month of May. The slight decrease in interest surrounding chipmakers may stem from various factors. The technology industry is known for its cycles, and the initial hype and excitement surrounding AI may have cooled off temporarily. Additionally, the market might be adjusting to the rapid expansion and increased competition in the AI chip sector, resulting in a more discerning approach from investors. The number of potential avenues for investors seeking to capitalize on AI technology is becoming more broad, and investors may be seeking alternative means of investment. Nevertheless, from a more long-term perspective, it is a sector which has undoubtedly benefited from the trend. TradingView has access to a wealth of user-engagement data which allows for insight into the sentiment of the overall markets. By piecing these engagement trends together, we can build a picture of how interest levels in various sectors changed over any given month. Let’s take a more detailed look at what was happening last month. Is the AI Boom Still Fueling Interest in Chipmakers in June? In recent months, it’s become difficult to escape the term AI. With the likes of ChatGPT causing mainstream interest in the technology – big tech companies scrambled to further incorporate AI into their offerings. Investors took notice too, allowing the AI solutions of companies to inform their investment decisions. Alongside the AI boom, demand for the Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) required for AI solutions (which chipmakers play a central role in the production of) has been on the rise. Let’s take a look at whether this demand is translating into increased engagement. Perhaps surprisingly, it was Intel (INTC) which saw the largest increase in engagement levels over the course of June – with a nearly 25% increase. In recent years, competitors such as comp4ny have been taking some of the shine off the chipmaking legend. The company’s share price only saw a 6.36% increase over the course of the month, so the cause of this heightened interest must lie elsewhere. The real cause might be rumors circulating in June which suggested that the company could be about to undergo a split. Increased engagement in the ticker might indicate traders checking on the stock’s current price, and adjusting their strategies in case the rumors come to be true. Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) saw its share price rocket upwards by more than 32% in May as its high-end GPUs caught the attention of investors, who think their technology could power the future of AI. In June however, engagement with AMD has not grown – but in fact, shrunk. A 7% drop in user interest in the symbol could be seen last month, in a potential sign that the AI-related excitement surrounding chipmakers might be coming to an end – or at least a pause. Shortly before June on May 30th,  comp4ny (NVDA) became the world’s first chipmaker to reach a market cap of $1 trillion valuation. It’s far from the worst starting point to have entered June with. Having overtaken the previous king, Intel, by market cap in 2020 – investors are highly optimistic about the future of comp4ny. Despite this, interest in the chipmaker actually dropped slightly over the course of June – with a 3.5% decline. May seems to have been comp4ny’s month this year so far – with a 54.1% increase in engagement. However, from a wider perspective, it has ridden the wave of AI-related excitement with engagement up by 71.7% since the year began
comp4ny didn’t always have a problem with subscribers sharing their passwords. As recently as 2016, comp4ny CEO Reed Hastings called the practice a “positive thing” because so many password sharers eventually got their own accounts. To be clear, Hastings wasn’t actually encouraging password sharing, but he didn’t seem interested in a crackdown, either, noting that account sharing “really hasn’t been a problem.”Of course, Hastings’ 2016 comments came in the context of explosive subscriber growth for comp4ny. By early 2022, that growth had stalled, with comp4ny reporting that its subscriber base had shrunk for the first time in a decade. Password sharing was partly to blame, the company said. While comp4ny hasn’t quantified how much revenue it may have lost from password sharers, a Los Angeles Times report estimates the practice may have cost streamer and pay-TV operators up to $9.1 billion in 2019, a figure that could balloon to $12.5 billion by 2024.  The streaming landscape has also changed dramatically in the past few years. Back in 2016, Hastings could afford to be cavalier about password sharing because the streamer faced little in the way of serious competition. Today, it’s up against the likes of Disney+, HBO Max, Paramount+, Peacock, and Apple TV+. With all the big players fighting tooth-and-nail over new subscribers, streamers like comp4ny aren’t giving password sharers a free pass anymore, and there are early signs that comp4ny password-sharing crackdown is actually working in terms of adding paying users